Python Solution for USACO Triangles (#1690)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-1011.mdx

<LanguageSection>
 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<PySection>

```python
from itertools import permutations
# using itertools to generate all permutations

fin = open('triangles.in', 'r')

N = int(fin.readline().strip())
points = []

for _ in range(N):
	points.append([int(p) for p in fin.readline().split()])

pers = list(permutations(points, 3))
# generating all permutations of size 3, since a triangle consists of 3 points.

area = 0

> for x in pers:
> 
> 	if x[0][1] == x[1][1] and x[1][0] == x[2][0]:
> 		# checks if one of the sides is parallel to the x-axis
> 		# and another is parallel to the y-axis.
> 
> 		area = max(area, abs((x[0][0] - x[1][0]) * (x[1][1] - x[2][1])))
> 
> 		# is the area of this triangle larger than our current one?
> 
> with open('triangles.out', 'w') as fout:
> 	fout.write(str(area) + '\n')
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for x in pers:
	if x[0][1] == x[1][1] and x[1][0] == x[2][0]:
		# checks if one of the sides is parallel to the x-axis
		# and another is parallel to the y-axis.

		area = max(area, abs((x[0][0] - x[1][0]) * (x[1][1] - x[2][1])))
		# is the area of this triangle larger than our current one?

with open('triangles.out', 'w') as fout:
	fout.write(str(area) + '\n')
```
remove some unnecessary blank lines

Author: sounds good.

<LanguageSection>
 

<PySection>

```python
from itertools import permutations
# using itertools to generate all permutations

fin = open('triangles.in', 'r')

N = int(fin.readline().strip())
points = []

for _ in range(N):
	points.append([int(p) for p in fin.readline().split()])

pers = list(permutations(points, 3))
# generating all permutations of size 3, since a triangle consists of 3 points.

area = 0

for x in pers:

	if x[0][1] == x[1][1] and x[1][0] == x[2][0]:

> 		# checks if one of the sides is parallel to the x-axis and another is parallel to the y-axis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		# checks if one of the sides is parallel to the x-axis
		# and another is parallel to the y-axis.
```
this line is too long; split into two lines

Author: got it.

		side1 = x[0][0] * (x[1][1] - x[2][1])
		side2 = x[1][0] * (x[2][1] - x[0][1])
		side3 = x[2][0] * (x[0][1] - x[1][1])

> 		area = max(area, abs(side1 + side2 + side3))

Reviewer: can you just do `abs((x[0][0] - x[1][0]) * (x[1][1] - x[2][1]))` for the area? no need to shoelace :p

Author: yeah that works.

Author: fixing it.

Author: ok fixed it

		# is the area of this triangle larger than our current one?

with open('triangles.out', 'w') as fout:
	fout.write(str(area) + '\n')

> 	# the question tells us to return 2 times the maximum area of the triangle
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
this comment is not necessary anymore, right?

<LanguageSection>
 

<PySection>

```python

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

from itertools import permutations
# using itertools to generate all permutations

fin = open('triangles.in', 'r')

N = int(fin.readline().strip())
points = []

for _ in range(N):

>     points.append([int(p) for p in fin.readline().split()])

Reviewer 2: use tabs for indentation

> pers = permutations(points, 3)
> 
> pers = [x for x in pers]
> 
> # generating all permutations of size 3, since a triangle consists of 3 points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pers = list(permutations(points, 3))
# generating all permutations of size 3, since a triangle consists of 3 points.
```
i'm not too good with python but i think this works?

Author: I submitted the solution through the USACO website, and it passes all the testcases. I'll double check for you.

Author: The solution looks good, just submitted again.

area = 0

for x in pers:

	if x[0][1] == x[1][1] and x[1][0] == x[2][0]:
		# checks if one of the sides is parallel to the x-axis and another is parallel to the y-axis.
		side1 = x[0][0] * (x[1][1] - x[2][1])
		side2 = x[1][0] * (x[2][1] - x[0][1])
		side3 = x[2][0] * (x[0][1] - x[1][1])

> 		area = max(area, abs(side1 + side2 + side3) / 2)

Reviewer 2: Can you not divide this by two? (it's preferable to avoid floating point numbers).

Author: Will floor division help? Using // instead of /?

Reviewer 2: I meant not dividing at all. Instead of dividing of two here (and printing `area * 2`), just keep track of two times the area without dividing (and print `area`).

		# is the area of this triangle larger than our current one?

with open('triangles.out', 'w') as fout:

>     fout.write(str(area) + '\n')

Reviewer 2: here too.

Author: Thanks for the quick response, I've just edited them.

>     fout.write(str(int(area*2)) + '\n')

Reviewer 2: Change this too (see comment above).

> 	# the question tells us to return 2 times the maximum area of the triangle

Reviewer 2: Move this up to `area = max(area, abs(side1 + side2 + side3) / 2)`?

Author: Yes, that would work. Thanks for the suggestion!

Author: Fixing it now!

Author: Alright, I've removed the division and multiplication at the bottom. Hope this helps!
